2.6.1 release notes (#981)
portworx/pxdocs: content/reference/release-notes/portworx.md

| PWX-15036 | Traditionally, Portworx installed via Pay-as-you-go or marketplace mode will go into maintenance mode if it is unable to report usage within 72 hours. You can now configure a longer time period, up to 7 days(168 hours), by passing rtOpts `billing_timeout_hours` to the Portworx DaemonSet. If you set an invalid rtOpts value, Portworx returns to 72 hours.| 
| PWX-11884 | Portworx now supports per volume encryption with scaled volumes. DCOS users who use Portworx scaled volumes can provide a volume spec in the following manner to create a scaled volume which uses "mysecret" secret key for encryption: <br/><code>secret_key=mysecret,secure=true,name=myscaledvolume,scale=3</code>	|
| PWX-14950 | Portworx now supports the ability to read vSphere usernames and passwords from a Kubernetes secret directly instead of mounting them inside the Portworx spec.| 

> | PWX-15170 | We now Meter VMNodeCount and BMNodeCount to AWS if the product is installed through the aws container marketplace. |

Reviewer: We don't need to release note this right @pault84

Reviewer: Change this to 
"Added support for AWS Marketplace and metering "

Reviewer: @nathan-px we need to take out this ???

| PWX-15705 | Application backups can't work with the newer security model of 2.6.0. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Application backups failed after upgrading to Portworx 2.6.0. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** The auth model now works with the older style of auth annotations. |
| PWX-16246 | -cache_blocksize <value> newly introduced px-runc option to configure cache blocks size for px-cache. 
The value should be min 1MB and above and a power of 2. |
| PWX-16006 | Under certain circumstances, Portworx doesn't apply all Kubernetes node labels to storage pools.<br/><br/>**User impact:** PVCs using replica affinity on those labels are stuck in the pending state<br/><br/>**Resolution:**  Portworx now performs the Kubernetes node update later in the initialization process. |

> | PWX-15961 | If you reconfigured a network device and attempted to restore a cloud backup on a volume from a snapshot, Portworx tried to use the IP of the previous network device in the restore and the cloud backup failed. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Users saw the following error message: "Failed to create backup: Volume attached on unknown () node", and had to manually attach and detach the volume. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now updates the network device when they're reconfigured. |

Author: @sangleganesh @jitupawar22 Does this look correct to you?

Reviewer: @sangleganesh we don't need to release note this as its a internal found issue ??

> | PWX-15770 | Portworx sometimes couldn't complete volume export/attach/mount operations for NFS pods before timing-out.<br/><br/>**User impact:** The affected pods failed to deploy. </br><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx no longer retries NFS mount operations in a loop on failure. The timeout for the NFS `unmount` command starts at 2 minutes, and if retried in a loop, an API Mount request can scale up to more than 4 minutes.|

Author: @adityadani please let me know if this is correct.

series: release-notes
---

## 2.6.1 

October 1, 2020

### Improvements

Portworx has upgraded or enhanced functionality in the following areas:

| **Improvement Number** | **Improvement Description** |
|----|----|
| PWX-16005 | Added support for fetching tokens per vault namespace. | 

> | PWX-14307 | Users can instruct to delete the local snaps created for cloudsnaps after the backup is complete. This will the subsequent backups to be full though. | 

Reviewer: Users can instruct to delete the local snaps created for cloudsnaps after the backup is complete through `pxctl --delete-local` option. This will makes the subsequent backups to be full.

| PWX-15036 | Traditionally, Portworx installed via Pay-as-you-go or marketplace mode will go into maintenance mode if it is unable to report usage within 72 hours. You can now configure a longer time period, up to 7 days(168 hours), by passing rtOpts `billing_timeout_hours` to the Portworx.<br/>{{<info>}}**NOTE:** If you set an invalid rtOpts value, Portworx returns to 72 hours.{{</info>}}| 
| PWX-11884 | Portworx now supports per volume encryption with scaled volumes. DCOS users who use Portworx scaled volumes can provide a volume spec in the following manner to create a scaled volume which uses "mysecret" secret key for encryption: <br/><code>secret_key=mysecret,secure=true,name=myscaledvolume,scale=3</code>	|
| PWX-14950 | Added support for Portworx to read vSphere username and password from a Kubernetes secret directly instead of mounting it inside the Portworx spec.| 
| PWX-15170 | We now Meter VMNodeCount and BMNodeCount to AWS if the product is installed through the aws container marketplace. |

### Fixes

The following issues have been fixed:

|**Issue Number**|**Issue Description**|
|----|----|

> | PWX-16160 | Environment variables were not anonymized<br/><br/>**User impact:** Potential leak of sensitive information regarding secrets.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Anonymized all the environment variables. |

Reviewer: Take this out

| PWX-15130 | <br/><br/>**User impact:** OCI-Monitor could leave zombie processes when installing Portworx for the first time. In most cases these zombies are harmless, but in extreme circumstances they can lock up "yum" package system on CentOS hosts.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** OCI-Monitor now properly cleans up zombie processes.|
| PWX-16022 |  |

> | PWX-16272 | Portworx left the `PX_KVDB_PASSWORD` entry in the OCI-Mon and Portworx logs.<br/><br/>**User impact:** The `PX_KVDB_PASSWORD` may have been printed in the logs.<br/></br/>**Resolution:** This fix masks this entry and more potentially sensitive environment variables in our logs. |

Reviewer: Take this out

| PWX-15899 | apparently helm 3.3.1 and the used 2.x version are using golang 1.14 which has some updated crypto libraries. it threw an error on one of the if statements. |
| PWX-16084 | There was an old image uploaded to amazon. |
| PWX-16082 | The AWS Catalog install allows Portworx to be installed in any namespace other than `kube-system`. If you deploy Portworx in the default namespace, the `px-osb` secret also gets created in default namespace. However, Portworx still looks for this secret in the `kube-system` namespace. <br/><br/>**User impact:** The AWS license was not activated and metering did not start. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Added a namespace variable to the StorageCluster and look for that namespace variable when we init our metering code. |

> | PWX-15978 | When the coordinator node enters maintenance mode, reporting fails. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Users saw metering errors in the log.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Metering is now handed off to a new coordinator node when an existing coordinator node enters maintenance mode and reporting continues. |

Author: @pault84 Tried to put this into the release notes format, not sure if this is correct at all.

Reviewer 2: No need to release not this. this wasn't in 2.6.0 and was a bug on a new feature.

| PWX-15953 | Copy paste error. 

> We were using the DR product code in both products. |

Reviewer: Remove this

| PWX-15977 | had to add some more logic to porx to watch the product secret. |
| PWX-16140 | We were grabbing the region before actually figuring out if we ran on AWS. 
This caused some systems to not come up. 
Moved check to where we actually send the metrics| 
| PWX-15705 | Application backups can't work with the newer security model of 2.6.0. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Application backups failed after upgrading to Portworx 2.6.0. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** The auth model now works with the older style of auth annotations. |

> | PWX-15963 | Can successfully create and delete volumes with accessGuest: Enabled using system.guest user using PX 2.6.1

Reviewer: Take out this from RL

| PWX-14950 | Added support for Portworx to read vSphere username and password from a Kubernetes secret directly instead of mounting it inside the Portworx spec.| 
| PWX-15170 | We now Meter VMNodeCount and BMNodeCount to AWS if the product is installed through the aws container marketplace. |

### Fixes

The following issues have been fixed:

|**Issue Number**|**Issue Description**|
|----|----|
| PWX-16160 | Environment variables were not anonymized<br/><br/>**User impact:** Potential leak of sensitive information regarding secrets.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Anonymized all the environment variables. |
| PWX-15130 | <br/><br/>**User impact:** OCI-Monitor could leave zombie processes when installing Portworx for the first time. In most cases these zombies are harmless, but in extreme circumstances they can lock up "yum" package system on CentOS hosts.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** OCI-Monitor now properly cleans up zombie processes.|

> | PWX-16022 | |

Author: @zoxpx Does this need a release note? if so can you provide the following?

<Describe the issue>
User impact: <how users experience the issue>
Resolution: <what changed, particularly Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>

Reviewer 3: This was a very minor issue, caught by our QA team (not by customer) - don't think we need a release-note for PWX-16022

> | PWX-16044 | |

Author: ```suggestion
```

| PWX-16272 | Portworx left the `PX_KVDB_PASSWORD` entry in the OCI-Mon and Portworx logs.<br/><br/>**User impact:** The `PX_KVDB_PASSWORD` may have been printed in the logs.<br/></br/>**Resolution:** This fix masks this entry and more potentially sensitive environment variables in our logs. |
| PWX-16240 | **User impact:** The ETCD_PASSWORD environment variable was shown in plaintext in the Portworx/Kubernetes logs. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** The ETCD_PASSWORD is no longer shown in plaintext in the logs.|
| PWX-15806 | KVDB backups are stored under `/var/lib/osd/kvdb_backup` and one of the internal directories of Portworx where storage is mounted. On storageless nodes, KVDB backup files were not getting rotated from the internal directories since there is no storage.<br/><br/>**User Impact**: The backup files could end up filling the rootfs of the node.<br/><br/>**Resolution**: Only dump the KVDB backup files under `/var/lib/osd/kvdb_backup` which get rotated periodically. |

> | PWX-15899 | apparently helm 3.3.1 and the used 2.x version are using golang 1.14 which has some updated crypto libraries. it threw an error on one of the if statements. |

Author: @pault84 need more info here to create a release note:

```
<Describe the issue>
User impact: <how users experience the issue>
Resolution: <what changed, particularly Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>
```

Reviewer 2: Added metering support for AWS Marketplace
User impact: "None" for existing users / AWS Marketplace users will need to follow the install workflow described there to get their licenses activated and usage metered.
Resolution: AWS Marketplace users need to follow the helm install so that the proper secrets get created for metering on AWS Marketplace.

TBH nothing really worth release noting.

> | PWX-16084 | There was an old image uploaded to amazon. |

Author: @pault84 Does this need a release note? looks like an upstream problem, not a Portworx problem per se.

Reviewer 2: nope

[root@compute-0 /]# pxctl v delete koka1
Delete volume 'koka1', proceed ? (Y/N): y
Volume koka1 successfully deleted.|

| PWX-16246 | -cache_blocksize <value> newly introduced px-runc option to configure cache blocks size for px-cache. 
The value should be min 1MB and above and a power of 2. |
| PWX-15698 | This feature adds a new command "pxctl service node-usage <node-id>" that displays all volumes/snapshots with their storage usage and exclusive usage bytes for a given node. This is an expensive command as it traverses through the filesystem; should be used with caution and not very frequently. This change also removes supports or deprecates capacity usage of single volume, i.e., "pxclt volume usage" is no longer supported. Sample output for node-usage looks like below. 
{code} 
 /root/pxctl service node-usage --node a1974352-afd6-4084-afde-3093bb39ed74 
ID NAME POOL USED EXCLUSIVE CLOUDSNAP 
1017039741863716269 newvol bd1e4ed7-cce5-4a5f-bc9f-72ccdd27b665 340 KiB 356 KiB No 
165419995402215829 testvol 57775d1f-ae87-49d9-a6a3-93509d52c880 4.1 GiB 3.7 GiB No 
245661434019838918 snaptest 57775d1f-ae87-49d9-a6a3-93509d52c880 4.1 GiB 48 KiB No 
[root@ip-70-0-57-247 ~]# 
{code}|

> | PWX-14950 | Added support for Portworx to read vSphere username and password from a Kubernetes secret directly instead of mounting it inside the Portworx spec.| 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-14950 | <!-- This is probably an improvement --> Portworx now retrieves your vSphere username and password from a Kubernetes secret instead of reading it from the `DaemonSet` |
```

> | PWX-16006 | In certain cases, Kubernetes node labels are missing from Portworx storage pools after a new node gets initialized. <br/><br/>**User impact:** When a new node gets initialized, the Kubernetes node labels were not getting synced to the storage pool labels in certain scenarios. This causes PVCs using replica affinity on those labels to get stuck in the pending state. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** A race between multiple threads was causing one of the Kubernetes node updates to get missed. The fix for this issue now moves the Kubernetes node update later in the PX init workflow.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-16006 | Under certain circumstances, Portworx doesn't apply all Kubernetes node labels to storage pools.<br/><br/>**User impact:** PVCs using replica affinity on those labels are stuck in the pending state<br/><br/>**Resolution:**  Portworx now performs the Kubernetes node update later in the initialization process. |
```

> | PWX-15961 | Cloud backup fails saying volume is attached on unknown node if the node's IP is reconfigured. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Attaching/detaching the volume manually would fix the issue as well. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-15961 | If you reconfigure the IP addresses of your nodes while Portworx performs a cloud backup, then your cloud backup will fail. <br/><br/>**User impact:** They see the following error message: "Failed to create backup: Volume attached on unknown () node" <br/><br/>**Resolution:**  You must manually attach and detach the volume <!-- I don't quite get this--> |
```

> | PWX-15770 | Portworx no longer retries NFS mount in a loop on failure. The timeout for NFS unmount command is set to 2 minutes, if retried in a loop an API Mount request could end up taking more than 4 minutes. |

Reviewer 4: Shall we release note this?

> | PWX-15622 | sharedv4 volume mounts timed-out. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** In a slower network or on overloaded nodes, sharedv4 (NFS) volume mounts can timeout and attempt multiple retries. The affected pod never becomes operational and repeatedly shows the `signal: killed` error. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** sharedv4 volume mount operations now wait 2 minutes before timing-out. You can also specify an option to configure the timeout to larger values if required:<br/> `pxctl cluster options update --sharedv4-mount-timeout-sec <value>` |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-15622 | sharedv4 volume mounts timed-out. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** In a slower network or on overloaded nodes, sharedv4 (NFS) volume mounts can timeout and attempt multiple retries. The affected pod never becomes operational and repeatedly shows the `signal: killed` error. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** sharedv4 volume mount operations now wait 2 minutes before timing out. You can also specify an option to configure the timeout to larger values if required:<br/> `pxctl cluster options update --sharedv4-mount-timeout-sec <value>` |
```
